A bug in the code is worth two in the documentation.
A fault tolerant system must report the faults even as it tolerates them.
A hacker does for love what others would not do for money.- Laura Creighton 
A low level language is one whose programs require attention to the irrelevant.
A paperless office has about as much chance as a paperless bathroom.
A successful tool is used to do something undreamed of by its author.- Samuel Johnson 
Abstraction is achieved by data hiding and enforced by encapsulation.
Actual usability is inversely proportionate to apparent user-friendliness.
Adding manpower to a late software project makes it later.- Frederick Brooks 
All programmers are playwrights and all computers are lousy actors.
All the simple programs have been written, and all the good names taken.
All you need to know is the user interface.- J.Redford 
An algorithm must be seen to be believed.- Donald Knuth 
An infinite loop is OK as long as you don't get stuck in it.
An operating system without virtual memory is an OS without virtue.
Any programming language is at its best before it is implemented and used.
Avoid GOTOs completely if you can keep the program readable.
Avoid the Fortran arithmetic IF (or better yet, just avoid Fortran).
Avoid unnecessary branches.
Bad style destroys an otherwise superb program.
Bad tools result in bad software.- J.L.Marsh 
BASIC is to computer programming as QWERTY is to typing.- Seymour Papert 
Be careful when a loop exits to the same place from side and bottom.
Choose variable names that will not be confused.
Computers are unreliable, but humans are even more unreliable.- Gilb 
Computers talk to each other worse than their designers do.
Computers...are not designed, as we are, for ambiguity.- Thomas 
Controlling complexity is the essence of computer programming.- Brian Kernighan 
Digital circuits are made from analog parts.
Disk is cheap, but storage is expensive.
Don't comment or patch bad code; rewrite it.
Don't compare floating point numbers solely for equality.
Don't diddle code to make it faster; find a better algorithm.
Don't document the program; program the document.
Don't stop at one bug.
Every bug you find is the last one.
Every good work of software starts by scratching a developer's personal itch.
Every program is either trivial or it contains at least one bug.
Everything should be transparent to the user.
Expert systems are built to embody the knowledge of human experts.- Rich Kulawiec 
Favor object composition over class inheritance.
Garbage in, garbage out.
Given enough eyeballs, all bugs are shallow.- Eric Raymond 
Good programmers know what to write.Great ones know what to rewrite.- Eric Raymond 
I do not fear computers.I fear the lack of them.- Isaac Asimov 
I suppose when it gets to that point, we shan't know how it does it.- Alan Turing 
If the code and the comments disagree, then both are probably wrong.- Schryer 
If you have a procedure with 10 parameters, you probably missed some.
In the long run, every program becomes rococco, and then rubble.- Alan Perlis 
It is easier to change the specification to fit the program than vice versa.
It is easier to write an incorrect program than understand a correct one.
It wasn't as easy to get programs right as we had thought.- Maurice Wilkes, 1949 
It's easy to get lost in the details of an incorrect implementation.- Tom von Alten 
Know Thy User.
Let the machine do the dirty work.- Elements of Programming Style 
Machine independent code isn't.
Make input easy to proofread.
Make it right before you make it faster.
Make sure all variables are initialized before use.
Make sure comments and code agree.
Make sure your code "does nothing" gracefully.
Never put off till run-time what you can do at compile-time.- David Gries 
Never test for an error condition you don't know how to handle.- Steinbach 
Never underestimate the bandwidth of a station wagon full of tapes.- Jackson 
Never write software that anthropomorphizes the machine.
Never write software that patronizes the user.
New technology becomes salable three years before it becomes usable.
New technology becomes usable three years before its users become competent.
No extensible language will be universal.- T.Cheatham 
On the Web, understanding the medium matters more than controlling the layout.
Performance is easier to add than clarity.
Plan the system for change.- Frederick Brooks 
Program to an interface, not an implementation.
Replace repetitive expressions by calls to a common function.
Smart data structures and dumb code works a lot better than vice versa.
Software is best understood as a branch of movie making.- Ted Nelson 
Software is mind work.Having the right frame of mind is essential.
The best packed information most resembles random noise.
The computer is the Proteus of machines.- Seymour Papert 
The computing field is always in need of new cliches.- Alan Perlis 
The less time planning, the more time programming.
The Macintosh was the first personal computer good enough to be criticized.
The number of UNIX installations has grown to 10, with more expected.(6/72) 
The purpose of computing is insight, not numbers.- Richard Hamming 
The wise person writes bomb-proof code.
There are always at least two ways to program the same thing.
There are never any bugs you haven't found yet.
There can never be a computer language in which you cannot write a bad program.
There is no problem that, when programmed just right, isn't more complicated.
To understand a program you must become both the machine and the program.
Try not to let implementation details sneak into design documents.
Undetectable errors are infinite; detectable errors by definition are finite.
UNIX is many things to many people, but it has never been everything to anybody.
Use free-form input where possible.
Use GOTOs only to implement a fundamental structure.
Use IF...ELSE IF...ELSE IF...ELSE...to implement multi-way branches.
Use text for text and images for images.- Paul Martz 
Using a free internet service, you're not the customer, you're the product.
Watch out for off-by-one errors.
When a program is being tested, it is too late to make design changes.
When we write programs that "learn", it turns out we do and they don't.
You don't have to know how the computer works, just how to work the computer.
